=== bem-tools
((/tools/bem/bem-tools bem-tools)) is a toolkit to work with files
based on BEM methodology.

It allows you:
  * creating entities;
  * building final runtime;
  * working with build declarations: merge, subtract and intersect them;
  * building the whole project using ##bem make## command;
  * launching development server on the projects source tree using ##bem server## command.

=== Optimizers
==== CSSO
((/tools/optimizers/csso CSSO)) (CSS Optimizer) is a CSS minimizer unlike others.

In addition to usual minification techniques it can perform structural optimization of CSS files,
resulting in smaller file size compared to other minifiers.

==== SVGO
((https://github.com/svg/svgo/#readme SVGO)) (SVG Optimizer) is a NodeJS-based tool for optimizing SVG vector graphics files.

SVG files, especially exported from various editors, usually contain a lot of redundant and useless information
such as editor metadata, comments, hidden elements and other stuff that can be safely removed without affecting
SVG rendering result.

SVGO has a plugin-based architecture, so almost every optimization is a separate plugin, and you can easily
add your own.

=== Work with files
==== borschik
((/tools/optimizers/borschik borschik)) is a extendable builder for text-based file formats.
It's main purpose is the assembly of static files for web projects (CSS, JS, etc.).

==== setochka (prototype)
((https://github.com/afelix/setochka Setochka)) is a tool to extract properties of the CSS style in separate files.

Can also be used to remove those properties without storing them in files.

=== Languages / Parsers
==== OmetaJS
((https://github.com/veged/ometa-js#ometajs- OMetaJS)) is a JavaScript implementation of OMeta, an object-oriented
language for pattern matching.

This is a Node.js module for developing and using such pattern matching grammars.

==== XJST
((https://github.com/veged/xjst#extensible-javascript-transformations- XJST)) is a DSL for universal data transformations
with compiler written on top of the node.js and ometajs and output code working in any browser or on server-side.

==== Shmakowiki
((https://github.com/veged/shmakowiki Shmakowiki)) is yet another wiki dialect, inspired by WackoWiki and WikiCreole.

==== Gonzales
((https://github.com/css/gonzales Gonzales)) — fast CSS parser.

Fast CSS parser, based on PEG ideology. At the moment it produces CSSP compatible AST, but will be extended to support other formats.
